Screenshot: Two metro lines run through or near to the densest area of Toulouse, France (#PublicTransportationDoneRight  #NewUrbanistMemesForTheTransitOrientedTeen)


Reflective analysis: A several-paragraph (2-3 paragraphs, revised with care; not essay-length) reflective analysis that gives the reader a discussion of the cartographic decisions that you made. Things you might want to address include, among others:

This map highlights the public transportation networks in the City of Toulouse, France’s fourth-largest city. Social and physical mobility are linked in many ways (for better or for worse) and as cities continue to increase in size, the accessibility and quality of public transportation will be crucial in helping create both an equitable, healthy urban environment and happier individuals.The map was designed to highlight major forms of public transport such as metro lines, trams, as well as bus routes. These are overlaid on top of population density data (2016 census) to help city-planners answer the question of whether the current transportation networks adequately serve customers where they need it most (in terms of number of potential customers in a given area). 

The trains and tram lines are highlighted in bright colours and have a slightly thicker line weight to magnify their importance relative to buses in terms of the number of people they are able to move over the course of a day. The population density is shown in pink to maintain contrast between the other elements but also the show the underlying basemap data. The shade (amount of black) for the basemap tiles was increased to limit distractions while still maintaining some contrast between the land use data (i.e. river vs. grass vs. buildings vs. roads). The darker colour scheme was also used to create a more modern, edgy, look to the map. The legend and toggle menu are coloured as such to create more balance in the overall map (toggle when clicked turns to the same colour blue and water bodies and gray tones are similar to those on the basemap tiles). The map labels were adjusted to only show the names of main areas at the most zoomed out (just Toulouse), as you zoom further in more detailed data of the area’s underlying land use, attractions, and services is shown such as buildings, hospitals, and neighbourhood names. 

In the future I think it would be helpful to add more detailed land use data to distinguish between commercial and residential areas and add info such as bus stops and metro stations as point data. In order to better answer the original question of whether the current transportation network is accessible in areas where needed most, more social data needs to be added such as poverty rates in certain areas. Perhaps multiple layers could visually complement each other to give new meaning as well, by making poverty rates data shades of blue and population density data red, when both are toggled on you’d get different shades of purple, with more purple indicating high priority areas (as transport here would serve a greater population AND a greater number of vulnerable communities.   


Github Directory Link: https://github.com/rithikha/ToulouseTransportation/index
